Add post-release blog for KEP-4192: In Tree Storage Version Migration (#56483)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2026/storage-version-migration-ga.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes v1.37: Storage Version Migration Enabled by Default"

> date: XXX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
draft: true
```

Author: Updated. Thanks!

slug: kubernetes-v1-37-storage-version-migration-ga
author: >
  [Michael Aspinwall](https://github.com/michaelasp) (Google)
---

> I am excited to announce that **Storage Version Migration (SVM)** is graduating to **General Availability (GA)** in Kubernetes v1.37!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I am excited that *storage version migration* (SVM) has graduated to General Availability (GA) in Kubernetes v1.37!
```

This article isn't the announcement for v1.37; it's a separate article that comes out a few days later. So, a small tweak.

Author: Ack, good point.

> After a number of releases of work and testing, the built-in `StorageVersionMigration` API (`storagemigration.k8s.io/v1`) and control plane controller are now fully stable and enabled by default across all Kubernetes clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After a number of releases of work and testing, the built-in StorageVersionMigration API (`storagemigration.k8s.io/v1`) and
control plane controller are now fully stable and enabled by default across all v1.37 Kubernetes clusters.
```

Author: Updated!

## The problem with stale storage versions

In Kubernetes, stored API objects are written using a specific *storage version* (schema representation). The way Kubernetes interacts with object storage fundamentally requires mutation of an object in order to ensure that the latest storage version is used for all objects. This creates problems when you want to change the storage version of an object.

> One example of a scenario where you may want to change the storage version of an object is when you are promoting a CRD from an older API version (such as `v1beta1`) to a newer version (`v1`). In this case, you designate `v1` as the new storage version. While new writes are stored as `v1`, any existing objects remain stored as `v1beta1` in storage. You cannot safely remove `v1beta1` from the CRD's `status.storedVersions` or drop serving support until every single object in storage has been re-written to `v1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One example of a scenario where you may want to change the storage version of a resource is when you are promoting a CRD to drop an older API version (such as `v1alpha1`) to a newer version (leaving just `v1beta1` and `v1`). It's a problem to drop the older API version whilst there are still resources stored with the old alpha version.

To avoid problems, you designate `v1` as the new storage version; but, on it's own, that's not enough.  While new writes are stored as `v1`, any existing resource could remain stored as `v1alpha1` or `v1beta1` in storage. You cannot safely remove `v1alpha1` from the CRD's `.status.storedVersions` or drop serving support until every single object in storage has been re-written to not be serialized and stored with the alpha version.
```

Author: Updated, this flows better. Thanks!

> Another example is **encryption at rest and key rotation**. When you configure encryption at rest or rotate encryption keys, existing objects in storage remain encrypted under old keys (or unencrypted) until they are actively re-written through the Kubernetes API server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another relevant example is *encryption at rest* and, related, *key rotation*.
When you configure encryption at rest or rotate encryption keys, existing objects in storage remain **unencrypted** (or encrypted under old keys) until they are actively
re-written through the Kubernetes API server.
```

> Historically, cluster administrators and CRD authors had to rely on manual `kubectl get/replace` scripts or deploy the out-of-tree `kube-storage-version-migrator` component to force re-writes. These approaches were often tedious, error-prone, and difficult to monitor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Historically, cluster administrators and CRD authors had to rely on manual
`kubectl get` / `kubectl replace` scripts, or to deploy the out-of-tree `kube-storage-version-migrator` component to force re-writes.
These approaches were often tedious, error-prone, and difficult to monitor.
```

Author: Done

> ## How Storage Version Migration works

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How storage version migration works
```

Author: Done

> Initiating a storage version migration is as simple as creating a declarative `StorageVersionMigration` resource. The built-in `StorageVersionMigrator` controller in the Kubernetes control plane watches for these resources and automatically migrates existing objects to their current storage version.

Reviewer 2: It's actually this:
```suggestion
Initiating a storage version migration is as simple as creating a declarative StorageVersionMigration object.
The built-in `StorageVersionMigrator` controller in the Kubernetes control plane watches for these objects, and automatically migrates existing resources to the default storage version for that API.
```
StorageVersionMigration is definitely an object, but AIUI you can use it to migrate storage version for things that aren't objects (eg: no `.spec`, no `.status`)

You can also hyperlink to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/storage-version/#migrating-to-a-different-storage-version

Author: Ah yeah, missed difference between resource/ object. Fixed!

> ### Example: Migrating a Custom Resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Example: Migrating a custom resource API {#example-custom-resources}
```

Author: Done

> Suppose you have updated a CustomResourceDefinition (`crontabs.example.com`) to use `v1` as its storage version. To migrate all existing stored objects off older versions, create a `StorageVersionMigration` resource:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Suppose you have updated a CustomResourceDefinition (`crontabs.example.com`) to use `v1` as its storage version.
To migrate all existing stored objects off older versions, create a StorageVersionMigration:
```

Author: Updated.

```yaml
apiVersion: storagemigration.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageVersionMigration
metadata:
  name: crontabs-migration
spec:
  resource:
    group: example.com
    resource: crontabs
```

Apply the manifest using `kubectl`:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/admin/storageversionmigration/crontabs-migration.yaml

> ```

Reviewer 2: For ease of maintenance, don't reference example manifests this way.
See https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/blog/article-submission/#article-content

Author: Moved to just a file that the reader can create.

## Monitoring and verifying migrations

> The `StorageVersionMigrator` controller updates the `status` of the `StorageVersionMigration` resource as it progresses. You can inspect the migration status using `kubectl`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `StorageVersionMigrator` controller updates the `status` of the StorageVersionMigration object as migration progresses.
You can inspect the migration status using `kubectl`:
```

Author: Fixed

```shell
kubectl get storageversionmigration.storagemigration.k8s.io/crontabs-migration -o yaml
```

> A successful migration will report a `Succeeded` condition set to `"True"`:

Reviewer 2: (nit)
```suggestion
A successful migration will report a `Succeeded` condition set to True:
```

Author: Updated

```yaml
status:
  conditions:
    - type: Running
      status: "False"
      lastUpdateTime: "2026-08-02T10:05:00Z"
      reason: StorageVersionMigrationInProgress
    - type: Succeeded
      status: "True"
      lastUpdateTime: "2026-08-02T10:05:00Z"
      reason: StorageVersionMigrationSucceeded
```

> Once the migration has succeeded, you can be confident that all instances of the resource in storage are stored in the current storage version. For CRDs, you can then safely proceed to remove deprecated versions from `status.storedVersions` and drop old conversion code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the migration has succeeded, you can be confident that all instances of the resource in storage are stored in the current storage version.
For CRDs, you can then safely proceed to remove deprecated versions from `.status.storedVersions` and drop old conversion code.
```

Does the API server check that your write to `.status` is correct? (**Alternative**: you might need to be super careful and we should highlight this potential to break your control plane a bit).

Author: This is done by the migrator itself. Updated this section since it should be done automatically. I'll highlight as well that if it's not updated by SVM then that means that there was some change in the CRD that SVM cannot update itself.

## Including migrations in your CRD manifests

> Because `StorageVersionMigration` is a standard declarative Kubernetes API, CRD authors can bundle migrations directly alongside CRD upgrades. For example, you can include the migration in the same manifest as your updated `CustomResourceDefinition`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because StorageVersionMigration is a standard declarative Kubernetes API, CRD authors can bundle or trigger migrations directly
alongside CRD upgrades. For example, you can include the migration in the same manifest as your updated CustomResourceDefinition:
```

Author: Updated.

```yaml
apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
kind: CustomResourceDefinition
metadata:
  name: crontabs.example.com
spec:
  group: example.com
  # Updated versions list where v1 has storage: true
  ...
---
apiVersion: storagemigration.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageVersionMigration
metadata:
  name: crontabs-migration
spec:
  resource:
    group: example.com
    resource: crontabs
```

## What's next?

> * Learn more in the official documentation: [Migrate Kubernetes Objects Using Storage Version Migration](/docs/tasks/manage-kubernetes-objects/storage-version-migration/).

Reviewer 2: Please hyperlink to the concept page rather than to the task page. Concept page is  https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/storage-version/

It's OK to link to both, but the concept page ought to come first.

Author: Done

> * Review the updated CRD versioning guidelines: [Versions in CustomResourceDefinitions](/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definition-versioning/#upgrade-existing-objects-to-a-new-stored-version).

Reviewer 2: These guidelines should be in the concept docs for extending K8s. Until they are, avoid hyperlinking there (because we may want to make a change that breaks the links).

Author: Makes sense, done!
